# Exercises sheet: Intro to OS


## OS structure

1. Compare System call, interrupt, and trap, give examples for each of them to be triggered

2. Explain the concept of rings on Intel architecture. Compare to privilege level on MIPS architecture.

3. Explain in your own words what is the main role of an operating system

4. How can we trigger a change in modes?

5. What happens after a trap has been invoked.


   
## Answers

1. An interrupt is a signal sent to the processor that interrupt (hence the name) the current execution thread. It can be generated by hardware (e.g. memory) or software. A trap is a software generated synchronous interrupts. It may be the result of a fault (e.g. division by zero). A system call is a way for programs to interact with the operating system. A computer program makes a system call when it makes a request to the operating system’s kernel. 

2. Intel architecture have 4 Rings (0 to 3). The most privileged ring is Ring 0 which contains the kernel and the most privileged is Ring 3 which contains userspace processes. Ring 1/2 are designed for things such as driver, but are in practice not used by operating systems such as Linux. The Ring restrict the execution of certain type of instructions and memory accesses. MIPS architecture only have two privilege levels.

3. A computer program that Multiplexes hardware resources and implements resource abstractions. It helps managing the hardware while hiding any complexity using abstractions.

4. Sleeping beauty approach: can be done through: trap, interrupts and system calls.
Alarm clock approach.

5. After handling the cause of the trap, the process returns to its previous activity.







